[DX-999] Updated allow and block list docs (#4027)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-tyk-oas.md

            }
        },
        "middleware": {
            "operations": {
                "status/200get": {
                    "allow": {
                        "enabled": true,
                        "ignoreCase": true
                    }                
                },
                "status/200put": {
                    "allow": {
                        "enabled": true,
                        "ignoreCase": true
                    }                
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

In this example the allow list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to any other endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden` unless they also have the allow list middleware enabled.
 - the allow list has been configured to be case insensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will be allowed
 - the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$` so requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The configuration above is a complete and valid Tyk OAS API Definition that you can import into Tyk to try out the API-level response header transform.
```

---
title: Using the Allow List middleware with Tyk OAS APIs
date: 2024-01-24
description: "Using the Allow list middleware with Tyk OAS APIs"

> tags: ["Allow list", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk OAS"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ["Allow list", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk OAS", "Tyk OAS APIs"]
```

---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Remove H2 headings so have page title, then introduction paragraph followed by section headings.

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

The [allow list]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware" >}}) is a feature designed to restrict access to only specific API endpoints. It rejects requests to endpoints not specifically "allowed", returning `HTTP 403 Forbidden`. This enhances the security of the API by preventing unauthorised access to endpoints that are not explicitly permitted.

> When working with Tyk OAS APIs the middleware is configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}); this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk OAS APIs the middleware is configured in the [Tyk OAS API Definition]({{< ref "tyk-apis/tyk-gateway-api/oas/x-tyk-oas-doc#operation" >}}). You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

                    }
                }
            },
            "put": {
                "operationId": "status/200put",
                "responses": {
                    "200": {
                        "description": ""
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    },
    "x-tyk-api-gateway": {
        "info": {
            "name": "example-allow-list",
            "state": {
                "active": true
            }
        },
        "upstream": {
            "url": "http://httpbin.org/"
        },
        "server": {
            "listenPath": {
                "value": "/example-allow-list/",
                "strip": true
            }
        },
        "middleware": {
            "operations": {
                "status/200get": {
                    "allow": {
                        "enabled": true,
                        "ignoreCase": true
                    }                
                },
                "status/200put": {
                    "allow": {
                        "enabled": true,
                        "ignoreCase": true
                    }                
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> In this example the allow list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to any other endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden` unless they also have the allow list middleware enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example the allow list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to any other endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden`, unless they also have the allow list middleware enabled.
```

>  - the allow list has been configured to be case insensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will be allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The allow list has been configured to be case insensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will be allowed
```

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the allow list has been configured to be case insensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will be allowed
```

>  - the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$` so requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Thus requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`
```

Author: ```suggestion
Note also that the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`.
```

> The configuration above is a complete and valid Tyk OAS API Definition that you can import into Tyk to try out the API-level response header transform.

Author: ```suggestion
The configuration above is a complete and valid Tyk OAS API Definition that you can import into Tyk to try out the allow list feature.
```

> ## Configuring the allow list in the API Designer

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Configuring the allow list in the API Designer
```

Adding the allow list to your API endpoints is easy when using the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard, simply follow the steps taken in this short video:

>  < placeholder for video >

Reviewer: Remember to add placeholder video

Reviewer: Agreed to revisit later in separate PR
